Caption: hello hello I hope everyone's feeling
Caption: fed and watered and copied and fruit and
Caption: all the rest that was out there it was a
Caption: good morning tea delighted to introduce
Caption: you guys to Haley Haley Stewart she's
Caption: going to talk to us today
Caption: um but first let me give you a bit of
Caption: her background Haley is a developer and
Caption: educator and has been teaching others to
Caption: code for as long as she's been coding
Caption: herself
Caption: she's a firm believer that anyone can
Caption: learn to code and proves it by
Caption: dedicating a lot of her working and
Caption: personal life to helping improve
Caption: diversity in the tech industry she has
Caption: extensive experience in writing
Caption: resources and teaching workshops about
Caption: computer science and programming for all
Caption: ages and experience levels Hayley
Caption: currently works at envato where she
Caption: trains Apprentice developers and
Caption: prepares them for joining their first
Caption: team as a fully fledged developer so if
Caption: our friends here would like to take
Caption: their seats I will hand over to you
Caption: Haley take it away
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: okay good morning everybody howdy my
Caption: atsumaria Koto so that's welcome good
Caption: morning hello my name is Haley I'm an
Caption: FYI my pronouns are she her and today
Caption: I'm going to be speaking on the topic of
Caption: paying forward so if you didn't read the
Caption: blurb and you just thought oh what a
Caption: cool title I'll go to this one or I'm
Caption: standing next to this room I'll just
Caption: walk in
Caption: um today I am going to be presenting on
Caption: how do you continue to progress and
Caption: develop and upskill in your own career
Caption: while at the same time dedicating time
Caption: to helping others do the same who may be
Caption: at a lower experience level than
Caption: yourselves because this is what I've
Caption: been doing for most of my career so I'm
Caption: going to go into that um in a moment but
Caption: before we do go any further I would
Caption: really like for us to just pause and to
Caption: acknowledge the traditional custodians
Caption: on the land which we are gathered on
Caption: today so today in this room we're
Caption: standing on woodchuck
Caption: and I want to extend that respect to any
Caption: Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
Caption: people's here and online today and pay
Caption: my respects to their Elders past and
Caption: present the hundreds of indigenous
Caption: groups who continue to exist in this
Caption: land have never ceded their sovereignty
Caption: and I want to acknowledge not not just
Caption: that I happen to be standing on wojic
Caption: land but that we are all standing on
Caption: indigenous land
Caption: but you can probably hear in my accent
Caption: that I did not grow up here I'm from the
Caption: Manawa 2 back home in aotearoa so I'd
Caption: also like to acknowledge the heritage of
Caption: the land in which I grow up and pay
Caption: respects to the Evie that have lived and
Caption: do still live on that land and I'd
Caption: encourage you to just take this moment
Caption: to also consider the people of the
Caption: culture and the culture of the land that
Caption: you grew up on also
Caption: I'd also love to give a shout out to all
Caption: of our sponsors
Caption: um and also they're not on the slide but
Caption: I'm also going to give a shout out to
Caption: she codes who are running a coding
Caption: Workshop today so if you have a moment I
Caption: totally encourage you to drop in and see
Caption: what's going on there because it should
Caption: be lots of fun
Caption: um but what are we talking about today
Caption: in this room so I want to talk to you a
Caption: little bit about my career Journey
Caption: because it's not probably the most
Caption: typical career Journey you would take to
Caption: become a developer and then from there
Caption: we're going to go into how did all the
Caption: teaching and mentoring that I've done
Caption: help me to become a better developer
Caption: and from that what are the tips and
Caption: tricks that I've learned to help you
Caption: become an Effective Teacher or Mentor
Caption: while you're also working as a Dev or
Caption: just in Tech in general and how does all
Caption: of this come together to help us improve
Caption: the diversity in our industry
Caption: so let me tell you a little bit about my
Caption: career and where I am today so at the
Caption: moment I am a senior engineer and
Caption: developer Mentor at envato
Caption: has anybody heard of envato
Caption: yeah we've got shocking brand
Caption: recognition recognition we're trying to
Caption: do something about it but basically we
Caption: sell uh well we provide stock footage or
Caption: photos or fonts or presentations we
Caption: basically create and sell creative stock
Caption: so even if you haven't heard of us you
Caption: have definitely seen us being used and
Caption: we support
Caption: thousands of authors around the world
Caption: who might be photographers or make
Caption: really cool animations and whatnot and
Caption: we sell their what they create on our
Caption: platforms and so far we have paid
Caption: millions and millions of dollars towards
Caption: authors and we have supported thousands
Caption: and thousands of creators
Caption: so we are big on community which is
Caption: probably why I work there because the
Caption: values align really closely to mine but
Caption: also I work there because I have a
Caption: really cool job so I'm a developer
Caption: Mentor which means that we hire
Caption: Apprentice developers and they get to
Caption: spend nine months with me or another
Caption: developer Mentor just training and
Caption: learning how to become a effective
Caption: developer on a delivery team at envato
Caption: and then they get hired into a team at
Caption: envato of their choice and then we take
Caption: two new apprentices and they get to hang
Caption: out with the developer mentor and do the
Caption: same and this program has existed at
Caption: envato for about five years now
Caption: and I just joined about six months ago
Caption: to help grow the program
Caption: so we're going to circle back to that in
Caption: a little bit
Caption: so my career journey I have been in tech
Caption: for about nine years which I think is
Caption: really impressive because I'm only 25
Caption: and so in that nine years I have had the
Caption: same goals but basically the whole time
Caption: one of them was I wanted to feel
Caption: confident in my role as a developer I
Caption: got into Tech when I was 16 and I didn't
Caption: know what I was doing and I definitely
Caption: knew that I didn't know what I was doing
Caption: and so I've spent a lot of my career
Caption: just wanting one day to feel confident
Caption: and like I do know what I'm doing and I
Caption: think it's only like maybe six months
Caption: ago when I joined envato that I finally
Caption: started to actually feel confident and
Caption: that yeah I am actually a developer but
Caption: the other goal that I've had in my
Caption: career is I want and have done a lot of
Caption: work towards helping other women to get
Caption: into our industry in technical roles in
Caption: particular
Caption: and the reason that I've had this goal
Caption: is because every time I joined a Dev
Caption: team or worked at a tech company I would
Caption: love it I would have so much fun being a
Caption: developer but over time I'll just get
Caption: more and more bitter about how many men
Caption: are on my team and how few women are on
Caption: the team and so I would then bounce back
Caption: to working in education so I've spent
Caption: about half of my career in education
Caption: half of my career in Tech and I don't
Caption: mean that I went and got a degree in
Caption: teaching and I taught in school so it's
Caption: not what I did I've worked with
Caption: companies like she codes to just Mentor
Caption: other women in Tech of various ages and
Caption: not just at Chico it's through various
Caption: organizations and so through that I have
Caption: mentored people who are like five years
Caption: old all the way up to people who are
Caption: very near retirement age so I have a lot
Caption: of experience in teaching people about
Caption: tech and helping people find roles in
Caption: the tech industry
Caption: but this created a bit of a different
Caption: kind of problem for me and that was I've
Caption: bounced between education and Tech so
Caption: much but I started feeling like I don't
Caption: know how to build my own technical
Caption: skills while I'm spending so much time
Caption: focused on teaching fundamentals because
Caption: I've spent so much time teaching people
Caption: up until their first role in Tech and I
Caption: haven't spent any time teaching you know
Caption: divs who have been in the industry for
Caption: like 15 years that's just not what I do
Caption: and so
Caption: throughout my career I've had moments of
Caption: imposter syndrome creeping because I
Caption: think oh I've spent too long in
Caption: education and I'm starting to not
Caption: understand what my dear friends are
Caption: talking about so now I'm feeling behind
Caption: and I'd have a small panic and then I'd
Caption: go back and tick but then I'd be in Tech
Caption: and think oh there's so many dudes here
Caption: and there's no woman so then I'd go back
Caption: to education and the cycle just repeated
Caption: itself
Caption: so part of this was because I was
Caption: feeling like oh I'm spending so much
Caption: time teaching
Caption: and I'm not really spending time working
Caption: on my skills and I had this perception
Caption: that in order to become a better
Caption: engineer and in order to improve my
Caption: engineering skills I had to spend a lot
Caption: of time doing what I could engineering
Caption: things so for me that was programming
Caption: and I think this makes sense like the
Caption: more time you spend programming probably
Caption: you're going to get better at it and so
Caption: your engineering skills are going to
Caption: improve but I realized that this is
Caption: quite a narrow-minded approach to being
Caption: an engineer
Caption: and so I've adapted this over the last
Caption: few months I'm from my Roland and butter
Caption: I've realized that this is actually what
Caption: it is to improve your skills in
Caption: engineering you've got to spend a little
Caption: bit of time teaching you've got to spend
Caption: a little bit of time programming but if
Caption: ultimately if you want to really rapidly
Caption: improve your own skills you've got to
Caption: spend a lot of time programming and
Caption: teaching you can't just do one and
Caption: expect your skills to improve and the
Caption: reason that I think I've had this
Caption: realization over the last six months is
Caption: because when I was hired at envato like
Caption: I went through the interview process to
Caption: be a developer Mentor but to fit into
Caption: you know their structure of well how do
Caption: we pay you and how do we compare you to
Caption: other people that gave me the role
Caption: senior engineer and I was so scared
Caption: because I have never taken on a role
Caption: that had seen you in the front of it
Caption: before and I was thinking oh my gosh I
Caption: haven't been a Dev for actually that
Caption: long I don't know what I'm doing why'd
Caption: they call me a senior they're going to
Caption: find me out so I'm going to be demoted
Caption: I'm going to be fight like all the
Caption: imposters it just just came everywhere
Caption: but as soon as I started
Caption: I realized that my career in education
Caption: had prepared me so well into stepping
Caption: into the role of senior engineer and I
Caption: notice it in the other Engineers that I
Caption: work with and I notice that in all the
Caption: engineers I interact with through
Caption: mentoring other programs and also
Caption: through just being on other Dev teams in
Caption: the past and I've realized that the
Caption: engineers who have dedicated more of
Caption: their career towards teaching or
Caption: mentoring or generally helping somebody
Caption: else in their team are the better
Caption: engineers
Caption: which shouldn't sound too shocking but
Caption: this was quite a realization that I had
Caption: so I want to unpack this a little bit
Caption: and I want us to have a little chat
Caption: about how did teaching actually help me
Caption: to be a better developer and therefore
Caption: how can it actually help you to be a
Caption: better developer
Caption: um and I'm just going to interject here
Caption: like I said in my blurb I'm going to use
Caption: a lot of examples about engineering but
Caption: this could have played as far as I'm
Caption: concerned to anyone in any industry
Caption: doing any kind of job just my
Caption: experiences in engineering so that's
Caption: what I'm going to roll with
Caption: so how did teaching help me to be a
Caption: better Dev
Caption: I have learned that you end up with a
Caption: much deeper understanding of a concept
Caption: if you are bracing yourself for someone
Caption: to ask you why
Caption: so if you know that you're going to
Caption: learn something and next week someone's
Caption: going to say oh why did you do that why
Caption: did you use that why did you put it in
Caption: that context what would you use instead
Caption: when you know that you're going to be
Caption: asked this just absolute massive pile of
Caption: questions you end up preparing for it so
Caption: when I go and learn A New Concept I
Caption: don't just learn the thing and then
Caption: implement it I learned the thing I learn
Caption: what alternatives I could use instead I
Caption: learned where other where else I could
Caption: implement this thing I learned what the
Caption: trade-offs are of this thing and then I
Caption: go ahead and actually use it and it
Caption: means that the next week when someone
Caption: asks me why I did that like I'm braced
Caption: for the answer like I know what I want
Caption: to say
Caption: and that's entirely because the more
Caption: Junior someone is in their career as an
Caption: engineer so harder their questions are
Caption: and the more intense the questions are
Caption: and the more they just start to
Caption: absolutely Grill you I've found with the
Caption: the more senior someone is in their
Caption: career the more if I give a confident
Caption: answer they're just gonna go yeah okay
Caption: and they just roll with it whereas the
Caption: Junior's gonna be like that's not good
Caption: enough I need more and so you end up
Caption: having to understand something way
Caption: deeper than you would otherwise
Caption: hopefully this one's obvious but it
Caption: really helps with communication skills
Caption: because I cannot tell you the number of
Caption: times in my career I have taught someone
Caption: what a for Loop is
Caption: and that doesn't sound hard but trust me
Caption: I know this from experience when you
Caption: first start learning to code for Loops
Caption: are like mind-blowing they're absolutely
Caption: magical so I'd say 90 of the people
Caption: learning them and I'd say 50 of the
Caption: people learning them do not understand
Caption: the way that I've explained it the first
Caption: time and it doesn't matter which way I
Caption: pick to explain it they're not going to
Caption: get it they need to hear it a few
Caption: different ways and so through the
Caption: process of teaching somebody else a
Caption: particular skill you end up explaining
Caption: that same thing over and over again but
Caption: in different ways every single time and
Caption: it ends up building up to really good
Caption: practice for your communication skills
Caption: so now when I'm working on a Dev team
Caption: and I try and explain something to
Caption: somebody else I know that I'm probably
Caption: going to be able to explain it really
Caption: well first time and they're going to
Caption: actually understand what I'm saying and
Caption: that's all from just practice of
Caption: teaching people who ask me questions of
Caption: why but how does that work I don't
Caption: understand it's just from practice of
Caption: dealing with that for so long
Caption: it's also helped me in that I've learned
Caption: that I really have to walk the walk and
Caption: actually do what I tell my apprentices
Caption: and my juniors or whoever I have to do
Caption: what I tell them to do so I tell the
Caption: apprentices that I work at envato at the
Caption: moment I tell them all the time just ask
Caption: questions just ask the question if you
Caption: don't know something just ask the
Caption: question but then I found that I would
Caption: have a question and I would open our
Caption: engineering slack Channel and think oh
Caption: there's 150 engineers in here I don't
Caption: want to ask the question because I'm
Caption: going to feel stupid and someone's going
Caption: to roll their eyes like why are you us
Caption: but I just realized you know what I
Caption: would tell my apprentices to post this
Caption: question so I'm just going to post the
Caption: question and no one has ever messaged me
Caption: saying la la that was a dumb question
Caption: like that doesn't happen what usually
Caption: happens is someone says oh I'm following
Caption: this thread because I also don't know
Caption: the answer to this question so it's
Caption: really helped me to get over my fear of
Caption: asking questions like I just do it
Caption: because I tell them to so I should
Caption: probably do the same
Caption: it's also really helped me with imposter
Caption: syndrome which is what I mentioned at
Caption: the start of my talk this is why I feel
Caption: like I finally like feel confident as a
Caption: developer because I've had to coach so
Caption: many other people through imposter
Caption: syndrome particularly because most of my
Caption: career has been focused on helping women
Caption: get into Tech in particular and we're
Caption: atrocious for imposter syndrome so
Caption: coaching other people through that so
Caption: often I finally started internalizing it
Caption: to myself and my internal monologue has
Caption: changed from oh what if they find out
Caption: I'm not really a senior and I don't know
Caption: what I'm doing to they hired me as a
Caption: senior so I mustn't be so I'll just call
Caption: myself one of those now and so the
Caption: internal monologue it's totally
Caption: different now and imposter syndrome is
Caption: not really something that I struggle
Caption: with anymore except before this talk I
Caption: mean I'm starting to freak out of oh
Caption: what if no one comes so thank you so
Caption: much for coming foreign
Caption: I've also become way more forgiving of
Caption: my own knowledge gaps
Caption: because when you first start teaching or
Caption: mentoring someone else especially if
Caption: you're doing this like if you're giving
Caption: a presentation or a workshop or
Caption: something like I feel like your biggest
Caption: fear is someone's going to ask me a
Caption: question and I'm gonna have to Google it
Caption: in front of everybody and that's really
Caption: scary because what if you can't figure
Caption: it out and then you get all flustered
Caption: but now I've learned that actually when
Caption: someone asks me something and I don't
Caption: know the answer which realistically is
Caption: most of the time I now just go cool this
Caption: is now an exercise in learning how to
Caption: Google things together so we're going to
Caption: go and do this research and see if we
Caption: can figure it out together and this
Caption: literally happened a couple weeks ago
Caption: the apprentices were so obsessed with
Caption: trying to figure out how to use this
Caption: hook and react and I haven't used react
Caption: in like 18 months so I didn't know how
Caption: to do it so we spent two hours Googling
Caption: trying to implement it didn't even
Caption: figure it out in the end but I feel like
Caption: they forgot that we were trying to make
Caption: it work so it kind of ended up okay so I
Caption: have become way more forgiving of my own
Caption: knowledge gaps when they asked me that
Caption: question and I thought I don't know how
Caption: to shoes it just became an exercise and
Caption: let's unpack this together and see if we
Caption: can work it out together
Caption: and I'm just while the slides on I'm
Caption: going to Chuck out a dangerous word
Caption: there where I feel like a lot of people
Caption: they go the other way so instead of
Caption: being scared of your knowledge gaps and
Caption: being scared have asked a question
Caption: you've got way too much confidence and
Caption: that mansplainer comes out in you so you
Caption: think I don't know the answer but I'm
Caption: not going to show them so I'm going to
Caption: talk with confidence about something
Caption: completely irrelevant and then they
Caption: won't notice which is not true and it is
Caption: not helpful so I've become more
Caption: comfortable with my own knowledge gaps I
Caption: don't think I've been a mansplainer
Caption: but I I don't think I have or a woman's
Caption: planer if you like but I certainly would
Caption: never do it now because I'm okay with
Caption: just saying let's just Google it and
Caption: let's just figure this out or just I
Caption: don't know let's go ask someone else
Caption: so if that in mind
Caption: I want to talk about how can you be an
Caption: effective Mentor because clearly these
Caption: skills are helpful like I feel like I'm
Caption: a pretty decent engineer and it's
Caption: because I've spent so much time teaching
Caption: other people so let's unpack what do I
Caption: actually do that's made me a good
Caption: teacher and therefore helped me with
Caption: those skills um and hopefully therefore
Caption: you can go back to work and feel like
Caption: you can be a good Mentor as well
Caption: so something I would like to point out
Caption: is that simply having knowledge does not
Caption: make you a good teacher
Caption: and I actually put this in the slides
Caption: because a couple weeks ago I was showing
Caption: these slides to the apprentices and I
Caption: said hey could you give me some ideas
Caption: what do you think I should mention in
Caption: here and one of them instantly rolled
Caption: her eyes in the most dramatic fashion I
Caption: have ever seen and said oh
Caption: I hate it when you meet those engineers
Caption: and they've been in tech for like 15
Caption: years and so they think that they can
Caption: teach and they can't and clearly this
Caption: person has been burned and and I think
Caption: we all have I think everybody can
Caption: probably think about that person that
Caption: they've interacted with who clearly
Caption: thinks they are the absolute bee's knees
Caption: because they know everything about this
Caption: one particular topic but they could not
Caption: explain it to you to save their life but
Caption: they have the confidence to think they
Caption: can so I would like to point out that
Caption: having knowledge does not make you a
Caption: good teacher
Caption: which leads me to this dumb expression
Caption: those who can't do teach this is such an
Caption: embarrassing excuse this is what I like
Caption: to say instead those who know do those
Caption: that understand teach it is one thing to
Caption: know about a particular concept or
Caption: library or whatever it is another thing
Caption: to have the understanding and have the
Caption: skills to actually teach it to somebody
Caption: else
Caption: these are not the same thing
Caption: and I get so angry when people say those
Caption: who can't do teach because I am a
Caption: teacher and I know what I'm doing and I
Caption: have a pretty good understanding usually
Caption: of the things that I'm teaching because
Caption: I've got that deeper understanding
Caption: because I was prepared for that really
Caption: terrifying why did you do that question
Caption: so those who know do those who
Caption: understand can also teach
Caption: so with that in mind how do you become
Caption: an effective Mentor so maybe you have
Caption: all the knowledge but how do you
Caption: actually have enough understanding to
Caption: teach that to someone else
Caption: so before we run through these skills I
Caption: just want to point out that there are
Caption: lots of different places where
Caption: mentorship happens because after I give
Caption: a talk like this someone always comes
Caption: and asks me for an opportunity so here
Caption: they are so at work you might have an
Caption: informal or formal mentorship program we
Caption: actually do this at envato I mean I have
Caption: two little mentees at the moment and
Caption: that comes about just because usually
Caption: someone says to their manager I'm
Caption: feeling like I'm missing skills in this
Caption: particular thing and the manager goes
Caption: great well I probably can't help you but
Caption: maybe we could find someone who can and
Caption: Bam suddenly I'm getting a DM and now I
Caption: have a mentee so at the moment I'm
Caption: mentoring someone on how to speak at
Caption: conferences so give me some good
Caption: feedback so I can go back into that next
Caption: mentoring situation some confidence
Caption: please and also someone wants to upskill
Caption: their um their knowledge of Ruby on
Caption: Rails and so very different things I'm
Caption: not an expert in either of those things
Caption: but I know how to be a good Mentor so if
Caption: you are at work and there's something
Caption: that you want to learn or maybe you see
Caption: someone has a knowledge Gaff or maybe an
Caption: em is mentioned to you or sorry an
Caption: engineering manager has mentioned to you
Caption: hey do you think you'll be able to help
Caption: this person with this particular thing
Caption: that's an opportunity to actually create
Caption: some kind of system around it and create
Caption: some more formalized mentoring
Caption: there's also you could pair with other
Caption: less experienced developers on your team
Caption: which I really hope that you already do
Caption: so if someone's stuck with something you
Caption: can have a peering session with them to
Caption: work it out
Caption: onboarding new team members is the best
Caption: opportunity because someone who's brand
Caption: new to the team doesn't know what
Caption: they're doing and doesn't know all the
Caption: systems they need so this is a really
Caption: great opportunity to practice mentoring
Caption: and you could also give team
Caption: presentations so maybe you have a
Caption: company that is like lunch and learns or
Caption: maybe you've just created a really
Caption: complicated PR so instead of just
Caption: putting the pr up and hoping for the
Caption: best maybe you could run a presentation
Caption: of actually running people through that
Caption: PR
Caption: so that's at work there's also Community
Caption: opportunities to be a mentor so for
Caption: example you could speak up meetups or
Caption: conferences this feels like a good
Caption: enough example of that you can also
Caption: tutor at public coding workshops or you
Caption: could tutor or teacher things like boot
Caption: camps so off the top of my head I came
Caption: up with a list of places like that that
Caption: do that so she codes General Assembly
Caption: code Camp codemaster Institute I think
Caption: all of those places have opportunities
Caption: in Perth to actually Mentor she codes in
Caption: particular they're like literally around
Caption: the corner go and ask them when they're
Caption: next Workshop is because they're always
Caption: looking for mentors
Caption: can you tell I used to work there I'm
Caption: just slightly biased
Caption: so there are plenty of opportunities to
Caption: be a mentor saying I haven't had the
Caption: opportunity is not good enough there are
Caption: opportunities all around you
Caption: so what is your actual role as a mentor
Caption: like what is your job as a mentor
Caption: your job is to help a mentee discover
Caption: ideas and solve problems for themselves
Caption: so in other words it's not your job to
Caption: provide Solutions that's not useful your
Caption: job is to help somebody else to figure
Caption: out what problems they're actually
Caption: facing and then figure out how to solve
Caption: those problems so if you're a visual
Caption: person person
Caption: this is this is what I don't want you to
Caption: do so sometimes someone needs help with
Caption: something maybe they've got a bug and
Caption: they can't get their code running or
Caption: whatever
Caption: you provide a solution the code is
Caption: running and you put yourself on the back
Caption: and goes sweet I solved the problem I
Caption: mean great but you actually didn't
Caption: really help anyone you solve this one
Caption: particular problem but did you give them
Caption: the skills to be able to figure out how
Caption: to solve it next time I don't think so
Caption: did you get anything out of that
Caption: interaction like did you learn how this
Caption: person learns and so how you might
Caption: better come at them with solving a
Caption: problem next time I don't think so in
Caption: general this is a really quick fix and
Caption: it helps no one in the long run
Caption: so I'm going to show you instead a
Caption: flowchart of what I use to Mentor other
Caption: people and it's a little bit
Caption: intimidating but it's okay we're going
Caption: to walk through it I did my best
Caption: so this is what happens whenever someone
Caption: at work comes to me with a problem that
Caption: they would like help with
Caption: so they come to me they're confused
Caption: about a particular concept or task so
Caption: we're gonna oh I can do this we're going
Caption: to start up here so they come to me
Caption: confused about a particular contig
Caption: concept or task so the very first thing
Caption: that I'm going to do oh I can do this is
Caption: I'm not going to grab the laptop and
Caption: start digging and figure out what's
Caption: going on I'm going to ask them some
Caption: clarifying questions and the reason I'm
Caption: going to do that is because quite often
Caption: when I'm mentoring there's a couple
Caption: things that happen someone might use a
Caption: bunch of really fancy terminology but it
Caption: turns out that they actually don't know
Caption: what those words meant and it's
Caption: impressive that they managed to get the
Caption: sentence together it would be really
Caption: easy to fall for that and think that
Caption: that means that they know what they're
Caption: talking about and I'm not trying to
Caption: shame the person in this situation
Caption: because great they used a bunch of
Caption: really cool terminology what I'm trying
Caption: to figure out is how far back do I need
Caption: to go to actually explain things so if
Caption: they've picked up a word but they've
Caption: used it in the wrong context you need to
Caption: help them with that you need to solve
Caption: that so they don't do that again
Caption: well the other thing that can happen is
Caption: someone has the concept figured out but
Caption: they don't have the words to describe it
Caption: so in this case they know the concept
Caption: they don't know the terminology to use
Caption: which makes it really hard to actually
Caption: form a question so in that case you're
Caption: going to ask them some more clarifying
Caption: questions to figure out which of those
Caption: categories does this person fit into if
Caption: either of them and you're going to work
Caption: out what are they actually asking me
Caption: what do they need help with
Caption: and your job and actually this is
Caption: something that again a printer said to
Caption: me a couple weeks ago is it's a real
Caption: skill to meet someone at the level that
Caption: they are at
Caption: just because you feel super confident in
Caption: this particular concept it doesn't mean
Caption: that you get to go on a rant about how
Caption: this thing works your job is to figure
Caption: out what this person is actually asking
Caption: and then give them the answer
Caption: appropriate to their level and even if
Caption: you're like itching to tell them more
Caption: and tell tell them about the founder who
Caption: wrote this thing in the history of
Caption: owning this happen and then we merge
Caption: this new version 12 is blah not useful
Caption: your job is to match the level that
Caption: they're at and give them the exact
Caption: amount of information that they need
Caption: which leads us to The Next Step so I
Caption: want you to provide an explanation so
Caption: once you've figured out what uh what
Caption: they're actually asking you because
Caption: you've asked those clarifying questions
Caption: you're going to provide an explanation
Caption: and if you don't know the answer to the
Caption: question you're not going to act with
Caption: confidence and just give them an
Caption: explanation you're going to Google it
Caption: with them and together you're going to
Caption: build an explanation and you're going to
Caption: try and work out how to actually explain
Caption: the thing that they don't understand and
Caption: I do this all the time I say I have no
Caption: idea what you're talking about but the
Caption: internet does and so we go and we look
Caption: up some blog posts or find some YouTube
Caption: videos we learn about it together and
Caption: then we unpack it together
Caption: so once you've done that you're then
Caption: going to do you're thinking to confirm
Caption: oh God you're going to confirm
Caption: understanding
Caption: so you're not just going to go and read
Caption: blog posts figure it out give a
Caption: monologue assume they understood and
Caption: then carry on you're going to ask them
Caption: some more questions you're going to make
Caption: sure they actually understood what you
Caption: just unpacked and quite often I'll ask
Caption: them the exact same question that they
Caption: came to me with and if they can answer
Caption: it confidently sweet I've done my job
Caption: they Now understand this thing but if
Caption: they're if they can mostly pull an
Caption: answer together but maybe they still use
Caption: some wrong terminology maybe they've
Caption: forgotten a word maybe it doesn't
Caption: actually quite make sense in this
Caption: particular context in other words
Caption: they're still confused then you're going
Caption: to ask them some more questions you're
Caption: going to try and figure out where are
Caption: they at now and what blanks do I need to
Caption: fill in now
Caption: and you might go through this process
Caption: many times so you ask a question you
Caption: give an explanation you'll confirm the
Caption: understanding they're still confused so
Caption: you're going to go ask questions again
Caption: and that's where that skill of being
Caption: able to explain something in multiple
Caption: different ways comes in because you
Caption: can't just give an explanation confirm
Caption: understanding find out they're still
Caption: confused and give the exact same
Caption: explanation and expect there to be a
Caption: different result it's literally the
Caption: definition of insanity so you're going
Caption: to practice giving a different kind of
Caption: explanation instead
Caption: so once you've finally confirmed their
Caption: understanding
Caption: and I'd like to point out that even
Caption: though I've written makes sense there
Caption: you're going to confirm their
Caption: understanding by doing anything except
Caption: asking does that make sense because
Caption: chances are the person's just going to
Caption: say yes because that feels like how
Caption: you're meant to answer that question not
Caption: useful so you can ask them a bunch of
Caption: other questions and determine for
Caption: yourself whether that seems to have made
Caption: sense for them
Caption: and then you're going to move on to
Caption: actually solving the problem if there is
Caption: one because at this point they might
Caption: have a solution just the explanation
Caption: that you've given might have given them
Caption: enough information to go with so they
Caption: have a solution so they need to move on
Caption: otherwise if they don't have a solution
Caption: now you're going to guide them to one
Caption: and again you might be pulling out blog
Caption: posts you might be finding other files
Caption: in the repo to share them to but you're
Caption: going to help them figure out a
Caption: potential solution you're not going to
Caption: give it to them you're going to have
Caption: chats you're going to have brainstorms
Caption: you're going to help them figure it out
Caption: for themselves but before you leave them
Caption: you're going to confirm their
Caption: understanding again you're going to make
Caption: sure that they understand what they
Caption: actually need to do now to solve that
Caption: problem so they might even tell you the
Caption: exact same thing that you just told them
Caption: but they might be a little bit more
Caption: confidence in their voice so you can say
Caption: I'm going to go look at this particular
Caption: repo I'm going to find this example
Caption: because I know that we did it here I'm
Caption: going to look at this PR that put it up
Caption: to see the notes so they might give you
Caption: a full explanation great that means
Caption: they've understood if they're still a
Caption: bit hazy they're not okay to be left
Caption: alone yet because you're just going to
Caption: leave them in a state of confusion which
Caption: is not what you want to do so you might
Caption: go through this cycle over and over
Caption: again as well
Caption: so finally once they have a solution and
Caption: they feel confident you're going to time
Caption: box them
Caption: so depending on the complexity of the
Caption: tasks that you're giving them that time
Caption: box could be I'm going to come back to
Caption: you in 10 minutes it could be I'm going
Caption: to ask in you know tomorrow how that
Caption: thing went so you're just going to judge
Caption: it for yourself to see a complex the
Caption: thing is so for example a couple weeks
Caption: ago I was paired with someone who was
Caption: stuck on something to do with our build
Caption: pipeline
Caption: um and as I went through this process
Caption: uh it probably took me longer than it
Caption: should have but as we went through this
Caption: process I realized oh this person
Caption: actually doesn't know where build kite
Caption: fits in and how that connects to GitHub
Caption: and how these things talk to each other
Caption: so I'm going to give her 10 minutes and
Caption: I'm going to say I need you to go do
Caption: some reading on this particular thing
Caption: here's the page of the docs I'd suggest
Caption: you read in 10 minutes I'm going to come
Caption: back and we're just going to see see how
Caption: you're going and 10 minutes since you
Caption: could explain it she had that a half
Caption: moment everything sunken she now
Caption: understood which was great it means that
Caption: we could repeat this process all over
Caption: again so you're going to time box a task
Caption: so for me that was go read these dogs
Caption: then once you've done that and you've
Caption: checked in with them you're now going to
Caption: consider frustration versus fun is this
Caption: person still having fun cat was having
Caption: the best time because she's really into
Caption: infrastructure and having that a half
Caption: moment was great for her so she was
Caption: ready to just ask the next question be
Caption: guided to a solution and then carry on
Caption: time box another 20 minutes move on
Caption: the person is no longer if the person is
Caption: no longer having fun so they're really
Caption: frustrated and they're feeling kind of
Caption: dumb they felt like they haven't made
Caption: progress well then you're not just gonna
Caption: put them into this Loop of continuing to
Caption: feel dumb you're going to go back to the
Caption: very beginning you're going to ask them
Caption: more questions because maybe you didn't
Caption: nail it the first time maybe they didn't
Caption: actually know what they needed to ask
Caption: the first time so you're gonna go back
Caption: through it all over again but this time
Caption: you're going to give some more hints
Caption: you're going to give them a little bit
Caption: more clues you're going to give them the
Caption: specific section of the docs the
Caption: specific line and the file the specific
Caption: part of that PR or whatever you're
Caption: sharing with them you're going to give
Caption: them more clues and you're going to go
Caption: through the process again
Caption: if you do and you get to the end and the
Caption: person is now just properly upset and
Caption: ready to throw their laptop out the
Caption: window because we have all been there
Caption: then you're just going to give them the
Caption: solution and I'm going to tell you that
Caption: sometimes even though I said don't do
Caption: this sometimes you just have to give
Caption: them the solution it's not their day
Caption: it's Friday afternoon and they're really
Caption: tired because learning how to do these
Caption: things it's really complicated that's
Caption: totally fine the chances are they have
Caption: learned something from this process but
Caption: they're now fatigued of learning new
Caption: things and you need to help them out a
Caption: little bit more but now you've both
Caption: built this relationship and understand
Caption: this process of how you're supposed or
Caption: what is a useful way to help someone so
Caption: you're still going to try it again next
Caption: time and chances are they're going to be
Caption: a bit fresher they're going to come in
Caption: knowing you're about to ask me a bunch
Caption: of questions so I've got the answers to
Caption: those questions ready which in a printer
Caption: surprised me with because she did that
Caption: to me a couple of weeks ago so this
Caption: process works
Caption: until someone's really frustrated in
Caption: which case it's totally fine just give
Caption: them the answer
Caption: just next time you'll try again we've
Caption: all been in that situation where for me
Caption: it's Monday mornings I don't know my
Caption: brain's not on like I'm not learning
Caption: anything so just give me the answer
Caption: and while you're going through this
Caption: process there's a couple of things that
Caption: I want you to remember
Caption: so I want you to remember to have
Caption: compassion
Caption: the earlier someone is in their career
Caption: the easier it is to suffer with it oh
Caption: I'm so dumb and everybody else knows
Caption: more than me and the longer you've been
Caption: in your career probably the more that
Caption: you've forgotten that this was you too
Caption: like for example
Caption: do you remember what it was like
Caption: navigating your code editor for the
Caption: first time you opened a repository with
Caption: thousands of files in it
Caption: really not but to someone who's just
Caption: done that for the first time
Caption: that is so hard even if they've you know
Caption: they've done a boot camp and they've
Caption: learned how to use this particular
Caption: framework that is not the same when
Caption: there are thousands and files in there
Caption: instead of 20. it's really hard
Caption: navigating a code editor so while you're
Caption: explaining perhaps a really technical
Caption: concept remember the earlier someone is
Caption: in their career just the harder they're
Caption: going to struggle just because you know
Caption: it's not muscle memory to use those
Caption: shortcuts to jump between files that
Caption: that hasn't been developed yet depending
Caption: on the level that they're at so while
Caption: you're mentoring someone have compassion
Caption: really think about where they are in
Caption: their career and what they're good at
Caption: and what they still need help with and
Caption: adjust the language that you use and the
Caption: pace that you go at to suit them
Caption: I also want you to talk about your
Caption: failures
Caption: this is really important because it's
Caption: really easy to feel like oh I messed up
Caption: and I don't want to be judged so I'm
Caption: going to hide it I'm not going to tell
Caption: anyone no we don't want that that's how
Caption: prod gets broken and everyone feels
Caption: confused so I want you to talk about
Caption: your failures
Caption: I broke prod a few weeks ago and I broke
Caption: it in a very bad way because we have
Caption: this little toast that comes up in the
Caption: corner and when you click it you go to a
Caption: site that where people sign up and
Caption: actually give us money so envato
Caption: actually makes money from it and I
Caption: accidentally got rid of the toast and no
Caption: one noticed and that was bad so instead
Caption: of
Caption: you know trying to bury them like oh
Caption: just fix this I went to the team like
Caption: hey team I messed up and so we fixed it
Caption: right but then what was important about
Caption: that process is that I then went to the
Caption: apprentices like oh here's what I did
Caption: yesterday I really messed up and so we
Caption: actually did our own little post-mortem
Caption: about oh what went wrong and how about
Caption: we dig through the code and figure out
Caption: how that happened and let's talk about
Caption: the process that we went through to
Caption: discover that this thing was actually an
Caption: issue by the way when you're doing
Caption: something like that check that it
Caption: actually works on prod because no one
Caption: did and no one noticed so talk about
Caption: your failures with them quite often
Caption: they're going to ask you proven
Caption: questions that are going to make you
Caption: realize yeah maybe we should adjust our
Caption: process maybe I should have checked prod
Caption: when I deployed this thing rather than
Caption: thinking Broad and staging we're going
Caption: to be the same state because that's
Caption: ridiculous
Caption: they're never the same state oh yeah
Caption: there was it was a whole problem it was
Caption: a whole thing staging was
Caption: this is the state that I was in that day
Caption: when I broke that thing it was not a fun
Caption: day
Caption: I also want you to remember to provide
Caption: meaningful work with meaningless
Caption: deadlines
Caption: and this is something that I think we do
Caption: really well at envato with our
Caption: apprentices so we go we actually sit on
Caption: delivery teams we send we spend about
Caption: six weeks on a team and then we hop
Caption: around and while we're on those delivery
Caption: teams our premises are given real cards
Caption: that do contribute to the products that
Caption: actually make a difference but they're
Caption: given cards specifically that aren't
Caption: urgent they have absolutely no deadline
Caption: attached in fact the earlier they are on
Caption: in their apprenticeship the more likely
Caption: that in their first six weeks they will
Caption: not finish that card and instead our
Caption: goal is to go on tangents learn a bunch
Caption: of stuff in the process and make sure we
Caption: do a really good Handover with the team
Caption: when we leave the team and what that
Caption: ends up doing is it just takes away the
Caption: pressure
Caption: there's no like oh I need to learn this
Caption: thing but there's things to do next week
Caption: so Haley can you just tell us so we can
Caption: feel like we're making progress it takes
Caption: all that away but at the same time they
Caption: get to feel like they're actually making
Caption: a difference on the products that
Caption: they're working on so meaningful work
Caption: meaning meaningless deadlines is
Caption: probably if you take one thing away this
Caption: is this should be it this makes a
Caption: significant difference when you're
Caption: onboarding someone new to your team
Caption: and finally I'd also like you to
Caption: remember to leave your ego at the door
Caption: just because you're a contributor to
Caption: Django doesn't mean that you need to you
Caption: know throw your weight around and say oh
Caption: but I wrote it so I know that it works
Caption: this way so you need to do it this way
Caption: like in a mentoring session totally not
Caption: useful totally not encouraging totally
Caption: not friendly so leave your ego at the
Caption: door it doesn't matter how much
Caption: experience you have when you're
Caption: mentoring someone you're focused on them
Caption: you're not focused on your experience
Caption: you're focused on them and what they
Caption: need to learn
Caption: so we've talked about how mentoring can
Caption: help you to be a better Dev we've talked
Caption: about how it can help you to Be an
Caption: Effective mentor and now I want us to
Caption: talk about how can you actually use all
Caption: these skills to make a difference in our
Caption: industry
Caption: so I would like to point out that only
Caption: training those that are already in
Caption: engineering doesn't really help with our
Caption: diversity issue
Caption: like if you look around this room how
Caption: many women in here and how many dudes
Caption: are here like if you only train the
Caption: cohort of people in this room are we
Caption: helping to produce more Role Models or
Caption: improve the diversity in Industry no we
Caption: are doing a great thing because we're
Caption: helping each other and we're helping
Caption: build our community to upskill and
Caption: that's fantastic but you're not helping
Caption: with diversity so I want you to use
Caption: these skills to actually shift the
Caption: needle and get some more interesting and
Caption: different teams built in our industry
Caption: so I want you to consider taking on
Caption: Career changes
Caption: for diversity of thought and experience
Caption: and what I mean by this is
Caption: so many places go to like a university
Caption: for the main recruitment drive you look
Caption: at the number of people who are in
Caption: University or Tafe or even boot camps
Caption: they're they are predominantly men this
Caption: is not a secret so if that is where
Caption: you're primarily going to recruit then
Caption: you are primarily attempting to recruit
Caption: men and you are leaving women behind so
Caption: I want you to consider taking on Career
Caption: changes people who have taught
Caption: themselves at home and maybe done a few
Caption: workshops and they're feeling confident
Caption: and they're feeling like they're ready
Caption: to learn and you might think oh but do
Caption: they have the experience they haven't
Caption: done this training if someone is
Caption: prepared to change careers I can
Caption: guarantee you they are prepared to learn
Caption: and they're going to be dedicated they
Caption: will be a great person to hire and train
Caption: yourself
Caption: I'd also like you to consider upskilling
Caption: those that are gender diverse to create
Caption: more role models
Caption: and how might you do that so at envato
Caption: we like to see our Apprentice program
Caption: isn't equal but it is fair and we say
Caption: that because our Apprentice program
Caption: actually only takes on people who
Caption: identify as women we do not take CIS men
Caption: into The Apprentice program and at first
Caption: thought and I'd be at someone in here is
Caption: really outraged about that right now so
Caption: yes you are right it is not equal but
Caption: quite often someone says well that's not
Caption: fair and what I would like to point out
Caption: to you is that if you go to university
Caption: or Tafe or a boot camp you'll see plenty
Caption: of men and you'll see hardly a new woman
Caption: men have every opportunity to get into
Caption: this industry it is much harder to be a
Caption: woman in this industry it is much much
Caption: harder to break into this industry it is
Caption: much harder to get over your imposter
Caption: syndrome in this industry it is much
Caption: harder to find a role model in this
Caption: industry and if you would like to argue
Caption: with me on that later I am more than
Caption: happy to because this rant can go on a
Caption: lot longer than this one slide so I
Caption: would like you to consider when you go
Caption: in highest someone who's new to this
Caption: industry
Caption: could you be more diverse in your hiring
Caption: practices
Caption: could you maybe remove names from CVS
Caption: for example and just take out you know
Caption: the burden of oh I've seen their name so
Caption: I know this person's a woman I know this
Caption: person it's a man and just hire on you
Caption: know the experience and what they bring
Caption: to the team and how willing they are to
Caption: learn
Caption: rather than
Caption: going to your universities and going to
Caption: tapes and going to your boot camps
Caption: unless it's she codes because that's for
Caption: women because then you're already you've
Caption: got a problem in your hiring pipeline
Caption: already
Caption: and quickly I'd also like us to run
Caption: through just what are the other benefits
Caption: of upscaling internally
Caption: you can teach people the habits you want
Caption: especially if you're hiring someone and
Caption: this is their very first role in Tech if
Caption: you hire a senior that person's coming
Caption: with opinions
Caption: and that person's coming with biases I
Caption: don't like that Tech I live in the
Caption: Google space Oh you use teams I'll never
Caption: be I'll never work for you
Caption: you know or oh I'm a react person I
Caption: couldn't possibly like we're not going
Caption: to do this new project review because we
Caption: like react like a senior has opinions a
Caption: junior doesn't a Junior's going to hear
Caption: that you love react and think yeah I
Caption: love react too
Caption: so teach you know the more Junior you
Caption: hire the more opportunity you've got to
Caption: teach people the habits that you want
Caption: them to have which sounds really evil
Caption: but like it's really good for your
Caption: company
Caption: it also I want you to think of it as an
Caption: investment so this is an opportunity to
Caption: give your reputation a boost within
Caption: envato our Apprentice program is really
Caption: well recognized and people are excited
Caption: about our Apprentice program because the
Caption: apprentices that we create
Caption: like they are exceptional developers
Caption: they do extremely well at envato and it
Caption: generally just kind of helps boost just
Caption: the morale around the company like
Caption: whenever we get new apprentices in if
Caption: everybody's like we're a virtual
Caption: community but somehow everyone's kind of
Caption: a bit like oh my God the apprentices are
Caption: starting today or Apprentice graduation
Caption: will they come into my team like it's
Caption: actually been really great for the
Caption: company
Caption: and as a result we also get longer
Caption: tenures the apprentices that we train in
Caption: envato stay with us for a really long
Caption: time which is awesome but also a lot of
Caption: people at envato they talk about when we
Caption: ask them because I'm kind of nosy I ask
Caption: people why do you like envirage they're
Caption: the people I work with and a lot of
Caption: people mention The Apprentice program
Caption: and mentioned the like we're actually
Caption: walking the Walk of trying to improve
Caption: the diversity in our industry you know
Caption: we're actually taking two apprentices
Caption: assigning them a developer mentor and
Caption: training them for nine months is a huge
Caption: investment and people recognize that
Caption: within our company
Caption: so
Caption: oh I feel like I should have had some
Caption: water at some point during that talk
Caption: okay we talked about my career Journey
Caption: how did teaching help me to be a better
Caption: day of effective mentorship and
Caption: improving diversity in our industry I
Caption: really hope that this has at least
Caption: inspired you uh to maybe think about how
Caption: can you be a better Mentor or what can
Caption: you take back to your team and maybe you
Caption: know you could even harass the senior
Caption: leaders in your team he said Haley said
Caption: it's really great to hire Juniors who
Caption: aren't don't just all look the same as
Caption: everybody in our team maybe we should
Caption: actually do that that would be really
Caption: awesome if you actually considered that
Caption: so thank you so much for spending time
Caption: with me today Chuck me a follow on
Caption: Twitter if you'd like to chat about
Caption: anything in these slides don't check out
Caption: my blog because I broke it this week and
Caption: I don't know how to fix it and please
Caption: please leave me some feedback on the DDD
Caption: website that would be really great so
Caption: thank you everybody
Caption: [Applause]